README.md, before:

# Wizard Chess w/ Dialogflow

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/wizard-chess/community.svg)](https://gitter.im/wizard-chess/community?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/nikochiko/df-wizard-chess.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/nikochiko/df-wizard-chess)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/nikochiko/df-wizard-chess/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/nikochiko/df-wizard-chess)
[![Dependabot Status](https://api.dependabot.com/badges/status?host=github&repo=nikochiko/df-wizard-chess&identifier=259290685)](https://dependabot.com)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)

<h2 id="what-is-wizard-chess">🤔 What is Wizard Chess?</h2>

To truly understand, I will have you read this

> **What do you do when you really want to play blindfold chess but
> you're stuck at home? 🏠**
>
> *Ask your chess friends - easy 👨‍👨‍👧‍👦*
>
> **They don't like blindfold 🤷**
>
> *Google for an online solution 💻, there are so many chess apps. There
> has to be one about blindfold chess.*
>
> **Pbbt 👅 There ain't one.**
>
> *What about.. the popular ones?*
>
> **They say "hide your pieces, it's just like blindfold chess 😇"**
>
> *Ugh - that's a scam*
>
> **I have to do something about this.. 👨‍🔧🍳**

Wizard Chess is **that** something. The goal is to provide the best
blindfold chess experience. That is, to have anything you might need
while playing blindfold chess - be it a platform to play, a platform to
learn, or a platform to further develop your prowess. See
[🧐 How do you do it?](#how-do-you-do-it) for the technical details.

Wizard Chess is already available as a Google Action! See
[🏄🏽‍♂️ Where can I play?](#where-can-i-play) to know more.

<h2 id="how-do-you-do-it">🧐 How do you do it?</h2>

We use the wizardry 🔮 of AI assistants and chatbots to interact with the
user. When a user talks to our AI asssistant, the message is forwarded
to [Dialogflow](http://dialogflow.com/). It processes the request from
the assistant - intelligently, with machine learning - and sends it to
our [webhook](https://sendgrid.com/blog/whats-webhook/). Now our server
uses this cooked data to generate a response and sends it back to
Dialogflow which in turn sends it to the assistant. The whole process
basically looks like this:
```
    User ======= |AI assistant/chatbot| <-------> |Dialogflow| <-------> |THIS SERVER| 💪
```

Examples of operations done on our end are creating and storing chess
games in a database, receiving a move and updating the board
accordingly, and generating responses for the user.

<h2 id="where-can-i-play">🏄🏽‍♂️ Where can I play?</h2>

The app is already available for the Google Assistant
[here](https://assistant.google.com/services/a/uid/0000003ba609b4ff?hl=en).
You can even launch the app without touching the link at all, just say
*Talk to Wizard Chess* to your Google Assistant to boot up the Action.

More platforms coming soon! Let me know via
[email](mailto:ktvm42@gmail.com) or
[Gitter](https://gitter.im/wizard-chess/community) if you want to see
Wizard Chess on a particular platform so that we can prioritize it.

<h2 id="how-do-i-play">📕 How do I play?</h2>

Upon starting the Wizard Chess Action (by saying *Talk to Wizard
Chess*), you will be asked to choose the side you'd like to play as and
the assistant will present you with a list of three options: White,
Black and Random. Now you can either select an option by touch or say
your choice out loud. The latter even works with devices which don't
have a screen (e.g. Google Home).

<h3>Playing moves</h3>
The system to interpret moves is very lenient and allows you to choose
how you want to say the move.

Here's a short list of how you can describe your moves:

- Long descriptive format - e.g. ***Knight from g1 to f3*** or ***Pawn e4 captures d5*** or even without mentioning the piece ***d5 takes c4***
  - For pawn promotion, you can add the name of the promotion
    piece to the end - that is, ***Pawn from d7 to d8 queen*** or
    ***b2 takes c1 queen***
- Shorter format with just the piece and square - e.g. ***Knight to d4*** or ***Queen takes f6***
  - Pawn promotion is supported in the same way as above
  - Note that you will be notified by the assistant if your move
    is ambiguous. This usually means that there were more than one
    moves which matched your description - for example when two knights can
    come to the mentioned square and you didn't specify which one.
- Pawn moves by the squares they want to move to - e.g. ***e4***, ***g3***
- Short Algebraic Notation (SAN) - e.g. ***Bd6***, ***Nbd7***
- Long Algebraic Notation (LAN) - e.g. ***e2-e4***, ***Nf6xe4***, ***O-O***

**Note**: The app doesn't yet support descriptive moves like ***Knight b to
d7*** or ***e takes d5***. In that case you should use the long descriptive
format of move by mentioning the actual square the piece was at - e.g.
***knight b8 to d7*** and ***e4 takes d5***

<h3>Castling</h3>
You can castle by telling the assistant to castle and mentioning the side you
want to castle on.

Some examples: ***Castle short***, ***Castle kingside***, ***Long castling***, ***Castle to the queen's side***

If you don't mention which side you want to castle on (just ***castles***), castling
will be performed on whichever side is legal, defaulting to the kingside in
case both are legal.

<h3>Seeing the board</h3>

You are also given the option to take a peek at the board. To do that just say
something like ***show me the board*** or ***let me see the board*** to the assistant.

<h3>Resignation</h3>

You can resign at any time by just saying ***resign***.

<h2 id="contributing">🔧 Contributing</h2>

Use the [issue tracker](https://github.com/nikochiko/df-wizard-chess/issues) to suggest
new features or report bugs. Feel free to directly [create pull
requests](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request)
for small changes and typos. Create an issue before opening larger pull
requests so that the changes can be discussed beforehand. The latest
Dialogflow agent can be downloaded from \<link to be updated\>.

<h2 id="changelog">⏰ Changelog</h2>

### 0.2.0 - 16/05/2020

- Moved from SQLite to Postgres with SQLAlchemy
- Bug fixes in show\_board
- Bug fixes with session\_id handling
- Added feature to accept SAN (or overspecified SAN) moves
- Fixed bug which caused stale result comment after engine's move
- Added feature to accept move when only a piece and square are
  mentioned
- Fixed bug which made app to crash when square had capital letters
  (A4, D5 etc.)
- Edited show board feature to flip board when user is playing as
  black

### 0.1.1 - 07/05/2020

- Set up Travis CI
- Set up coverage reporting with Codecov
- Moved from using Dict in memory to sqlite3 DB on disk 🎉
- Added testing to cover more than 90% of codebase 💪
- Added feature to see board at any time 👁️
- Board image will be shown after completion of games 📜

### 0.1.0 - 27/04/2020

- Format according to Black formatting tool
- Basic functionality to play a game as a Google Action
- Voice-activated ability to castle, promote pawn, and play move when
  at least the two squares involved in the move are given.
- Works with games stored in memory as Dict data type. Considering
  move to sqlite in future versions
- Unit tests added for most basic functions. More tests required for
  functions which handle intents.

<h2 id="license">License</h2>

Licensed under GNU General Public License 3.0 (GPL-3.0). See
[LICENSE](https://github.com/nikochiko/df-wizard-chess/blob/master/LICENSE)
for full text.

Commit message:

Update readme with undo instructions

README.md, after:

# Wizard Chess w/ Dialogflow

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/wizard-chess/community.svg)](https://gitter.im/wizard-chess/community?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/nikochiko/df-wizard-chess.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/nikochiko/df-wizard-chess)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/nikochiko/df-wizard-chess/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/nikochiko/df-wizard-chess)
[![Dependabot Status](https://api.dependabot.com/badges/status?host=github&repo=nikochiko/df-wizard-chess&identifier=259290685)](https://dependabot.com)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)

<h2 id="what-is-wizard-chess">🤔 What is Wizard Chess?</h2>

To truly understand, I will have you read this

> **What do you do when you really want to play blindfold chess but
> you're stuck at home? 🏠**
>
> *Ask your chess friends - easy 👨‍👨‍👧‍👦*
>
> **They don't like blindfold 🤷**
>
> *Google for an online solution 💻, there are so many chess apps. There
> has to be one about blindfold chess.*
>
> **Pbbt 👅 There ain't one.**
>
> *What about.. the popular ones?*
>
> **They say "hide your pieces, it's just like blindfold chess 😇"**
>
> *Ugh - that's a scam*
>
> **I have to do something about this.. 👨‍🔧🍳**

Wizard Chess is **that** something. The goal is to provide the best
blindfold chess experience. That is, to have anything you might need
while playing blindfold chess - be it a platform to play, a platform to
learn, or a platform to further develop your prowess. See
[🧐 How do you do it?](#how-do-you-do-it) for the technical details.

Wizard Chess is already available as a Google Action! See
[🏄🏽‍♂️ Where can I play?](#where-can-i-play) to know more.

<h2 id="how-do-you-do-it">🧐 How do you do it?</h2>

We use the wizardry 🔮 of AI assistants and chatbots to interact with the
user. When a user talks to our AI asssistant, the message is forwarded
to [Dialogflow](http://dialogflow.com/). It processes the request from
the assistant - intelligently, with machine learning - and sends it to
our [webhook](https://sendgrid.com/blog/whats-webhook/). Now our server
uses this cooked data to generate a response and sends it back to
Dialogflow which in turn sends it to the assistant. The whole process
basically looks like this:
```
    User ======= |AI assistant/chatbot| <-------> |Dialogflow| <-------> |THIS SERVER| 💪
```

Examples of operations done on our end are creating and storing chess
games in a database, receiving a move and updating the board
accordingly, and generating responses for the user.

<h2 id="where-can-i-play">🏄🏽‍♂️ Where can I play?</h2>

The app is already available for the Google Assistant
[here](https://assistant.google.com/services/a/uid/0000003ba609b4ff?hl=en).
You can even launch the app without touching the link at all, just say
*Talk to Wizard Chess* to your Google Assistant to boot up the Action.

More platforms coming soon! Let me know via
[email](mailto:ktvm42@gmail.com) or
[Gitter](https://gitter.im/wizard-chess/community) if you want to see
Wizard Chess on a particular platform so that we can prioritize it.

<h2 id="how-do-i-play">📕 How do I play?</h2>

Upon starting the Wizard Chess Action (by saying *Talk to Wizard
Chess*), you will be asked to choose the side you'd like to play as and
the assistant will present you with a list of three options: White,
Black and Random. Now you can either select an option by touch or say
your choice out loud. The latter even works with devices which don't
have a screen (e.g. Google Home).

<h3>Playing moves</h3>
The system to interpret moves is very lenient and allows you to choose
how you want to say the move.

Here's a short list of how you can describe your moves:

- Long descriptive format - e.g. ***Knight from g1 to f3*** or ***Pawn e4 captures d5*** or even without mentioning the piece ***d5 takes c4***
  - For pawn promotion, you can add the name of the promotion
    piece to the end - that is, ***Pawn from d7 to d8 queen*** or
    ***b2 takes c1 queen***
- Shorter format with just the piece and square - e.g. ***Knight to d4*** or ***Queen takes f6***
  - Pawn promotion is supported in the same way as above
  - Note that you will be notified by the assistant if your move
    is ambiguous. This usually means that there were more than one
    moves which matched your description - for example when two knights can
    come to the mentioned square and you didn't specify which one.
- Pawn moves by the squares they want to move to - e.g. ***e4***, ***g3***
- Short Algebraic Notation (SAN) - e.g. ***Bd6***, ***Nbd7***
- Long Algebraic Notation (LAN) - e.g. ***e2-e4***, ***Nf6xe4***, ***O-O***

**Note**: The app doesn't yet support descriptive moves like ***Knight b to
d7*** or ***e takes d5***. In that case you should use the long descriptive
format of move by mentioning the actual square the piece was at - e.g.
***knight b8 to d7*** and ***e4 takes d5***

<h3>Castling</h3>
You can castle by telling the assistant to castle and mentioning the side you
want to castle on.

Some examples: ***Castle short***, ***Castle kingside***, ***Long castling***, ***Castle to the queen's side***

If you don't mention which side you want to castle on (just ***castles***), castling
will be performed on whichever side is legal, defaulting to the kingside in
case both are legal.

<h3>Undoing the moves</h3>
You can easily undo your last move by saying ***Undo move***, ***take back
my last move***, etc.

<h3>Seeing the board</h3>

You are also given the option to take a peek at the board. To do that just say
something like ***show me the board*** or ***let me see the board*** to the assistant.

<h3>Resignation</h3>

You can resign at any time by just saying ***resign***.

<h2 id="contributing">🔧 Contributing</h2>

Use the [issue tracker](https://github.com/nikochiko/df-wizard-chess/issues) to suggest
new features or report bugs. Feel free to directly [create pull
requests](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request)
for small changes and typos. Create an issue before opening larger pull
requests so that the changes can be discussed beforehand. The latest
Dialogflow agent can be downloaded from \<link to be updated\>.

<h2 id="changelog">⏰ Changelog</h2>

### 0.2.0 - 16/05/2020

- Moved from SQLite to Postgres with SQLAlchemy
- Bug fixes in show\_board
- Bug fixes with session\_id handling
- Added feature to accept SAN (or overspecified SAN) moves
- Fixed bug which caused stale result comment after engine's move
- Added feature to accept move when only a piece and square are
  mentioned
- Fixed bug which made app to crash when square had capital letters
  (A4, D5 etc.)
- Edited show board feature to flip board when user is playing as
  black

### 0.1.1 - 07/05/2020

- Set up Travis CI
- Set up coverage reporting with Codecov
- Moved from using Dict in memory to sqlite3 DB on disk 🎉
- Added testing to cover more than 90% of codebase 💪
- Added feature to see board at any time 👁️
- Board image will be shown after completion of games 📜

### 0.1.0 - 27/04/2020

- Format according to Black formatting tool
- Basic functionality to play a game as a Google Action
- Voice-activated ability to castle, promote pawn, and play move when
  at least the two squares involved in the move are given.
- Works with games stored in memory as Dict data type. Considering
  move to sqlite in future versions
- Unit tests added for most basic functions. More tests required for
  functions which handle intents.

<h2 id="license">License</h2>

Licensed under GNU General Public License 3.0 (GPL-3.0). See
[LICENSE](https://github.com/nikochiko/df-wizard-chess/blob/master/LICENSE)
for full text.
